=
layout: post
title: Miranda 101
slug: miranda-101
author: thibaultCha
date: 2013-11-17T17:30
=

Great! If you landed here, it means you managed to build your website and maybe even to make it run on a local server! Remember: you can use `miranda --help` at any time for a quick reminder of the available commands.

# So, what just happened?

Using `miranda build`, you compiled this website. By default, the path to compile a website is `./www`, but you can override it in your website's `config.yml` file. 

# config.yml

Your website's configuration is built using [YAML](http://yaml.org/).

You can override many things in this file. Here is a complete set of the overridable properties and their default values:

```yaml
dateFormat: DD MMM YYYY
compress: true
paths.buildDir: ./www
paths.templateDir: _template
paths.assets.input: _assets
paths.assets.output: assets
paths.pages.input: _pages
paths.posts.input: _posts
paths.posts.output: posts
```

This is the standard `config.yml` file:

```yaml
toJade:
  owner:
    name: Your Name
  website:
    title: Your website title
```
 
And this is a more complex one as an example:

```yaml
dateFormat: MM DD YYYY
compress: false
paths:
  buildDir: /Users/david/Desktop
    assets:
      input: custom_assets
      output: assets_output
    posts:
      input: articles
      output: posts
toJade:
  owner:
    name: Your Name
    description: Access this custom variable with #{owner.description} in Jade
  website:
    title: Your website title
  custom_variable: This variable can be used in the jade template too: #{custom_variable} in Jade
```

`compress` defines if the output HTML/CSS should be rendered as "pretty" or not.

Paths can be either relative or absolute. Got it? Quite easy :wink:

# Metadatas

When you create some content in a markdown file, you want it to be rendered using a Jade template. You might also want to keep trace of when a blog post was written, or who wrote it... To do this, the beginning of each file should contain metadatas between two `=` signs.

## Pages

When you create a page you must include some metadatas. Here is a list of supported ones:

```yaml
=
layout: page (required)
title: Home (optional)
slug: index (required)
=
```

- `layout`: will seek the wanted layout in the `templateDir` directory. Here: `page.jade`
- `title`: the title of the page. If not set the file name will be used. Here: `index.html`
- `slug`: the HTML filename. Must be URL compliant, otherwise an error will be thrown.

The available metadatas in the Jade template are:

```
content (an HTML string containing the markdown from your file)
metas.title
posts (an array containing the blog posts)
    post.title
    post.link
    post.author
    post.date
    post.content
config.<custom_objects> (The custom objects in th toJade property in config.yml)
```

## Posts

For a blog post:

```yaml
=
layout: post (required)
title: Miranda 101 (required)
slug: miranda-101 (required)
author: thibaultCha
date: Sun Nov 17 2013 23:40:00 GMT+0200 (CEST) (required)
=
```

- `author`: The author of the blog post.
- `date`: Standard ISO 8601 date format.

The available metadatas in the Jade template are:

```
content (an HTML string containing the markdown from your post)
metas.title
metas.author
metas.date
posts (the same array containing the blog posts)
config.<custom_objects> (The custom objects in th toJade property in config.yml)
```

Also, remember: your blog posts must be named as `YYYY-MM-DD_blog-name.md`.

# Jade and Stylus templating

If you don't know a bit of those, you might want to take a look at the docs:

- [Jade doc](http://jade-lang.com/)
- [Stylus doc](http://learnboost.github.io/stylus/)

You can insert variables from metadatas into Jade like this:

```
!!!5
html
  head
  title= metas.title
```

You can also dig in this website's template to find some examples on how to write your own template.

# Emojis

Oh yes, I almost forgot! Emojis! I like them and I think it's a good thing to use while blogging.

Just write one between colons, like this: `: grin :` (without the spaces)

You can refer to [http://www.emoji-cheat-sheet.com/](http://www.emoji-cheat-sheet.com/) for more emojis to use.

# Required directories

In order to use Miranda, you should have the following directories:

- A directory containing your standard pages. You can have subdirectories in it and they will be rendered in the website arborescence, just as the [about](/about/) page on this website.
- A directory containing your blog posts.
- An assets directory, containing your JavaScript, files and images.
- And a template directory. In this one, you can order Jade and Stylus files the way you want (this website uses a `layouts` and a `styl` directory, but feel free to organize yours as you want).
